README.md, before:



# Wallrus

<p align="center">
  <img src="data/icons/io.github.megakode.Wallrus.svg" width="128" height="128" alt="Wallrus icon">
</p>
A user-friendly GNOME (GTK4) application for generating colorful abstract wallpapers based on different patterns and effects.

For those who prefer minimalist, colorful wallpapers and like changing colors once in a while to keep things fresh.

<img width="1346" height="944" alt="Screenshot From 2026-02-22 15-04-59" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24508c47-0103-4817-a92f-bfd632fc9b67" />


## Example wallpapers

![wallrus_bars_1771764551](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/880a55a9-7b80-4d2c-86c9-3dd51da19a89)
![wallrus_bars_1771764536](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0034302e-1204-4ff7-8cf9-97c80ae61de6)
![wallrus_waves_1771764682](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/898a8c7d-07df-46fc-b939-60f2d840ff38)
![wallrus_terrain_1771764802](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95c61466-47df-45a0-92fe-bd17d4bb6c88)
![wallrus_terrain_1771764772](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf52c0e1-2557-4af6-aa68-09e5253862e5)
![wallrus_circle_1771764645](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f5ef79bd-56b1-4561-9c0c-65b11512611f)



## Features

- **5 shader presets** — Bars, Circle, Plasma, Waves, and Terrain, each with
  dedicated parameters (angle, scale, time scrub, center position)
- **Hundreds of bundled palette images** across several categories (cold, dark, fall,
  gradient, light, pastel, retro, sunset, warm, winter, etc.)
- **Custom palettes** — tweak individual colors with the color pickers, then save
  your palette for later. Saved palettes appear in a "Custom" category and can
  be deleted at any time.
- **Blend control** — go from hard flag-like stripes to fully smooth gradients
- **Effects** - Distortion, lightning and noise
- **Export** — PNG or JPEG at 1080p, 1440p, or 4K via a native save dialog
  (default resolution auto-detected from your display)
- **Set as wallpaper** — uses the XDG Desktop Portal to set your GNOME wallpaper
- **Keyboard shortcuts** — Ctrl+E (export PNG), Ctrl+Shift+E (export JPEG),
  Ctrl+Shift+W (set as wallpaper)

## Requirements

- GTK 4 (≥ 4.10)
- libadwaita (≥ 1.4)
- OpenGL 3.3+ capable GPU
- Rust 1.70+

System packages (Fedora):

```
sudo dnf install gtk4-devel libadwaita-devel
```

System packages (Ubuntu/Debian):

```
sudo apt install libgtk-4-dev libadwaita-1-dev
```

## Building

```
cargo build --release
```

The binary is at `target/release/wallrus`.

## Installing

The included install script builds a release binary and copies everything to
`~/.local` (binary, desktop file, icon, metainfo, and bundled palettes):

```
./install.sh
```

To install to a different prefix:

```
PREFIX=/usr/local ./install.sh
```

You may need to log out and back in for the application icon to appear in your
launcher.

### Nix

A [Nix flake](https://nix.dev/concepts/flakes) is provided. You can run
Wallrus directly without installing:

```
nix run github:megakode/wallrus
```

To add it to a NixOS configuration:

```nix
# flake.nix
{
  inputs.wallrus.url = "github:megakode/wallrus";
  # ...
}

# configuration.nix
environment.systemPackages = [
  inputs.wallrus.packages.${pkgs.system}.default
];
```

A development shell with all native dependencies, `rust-analyzer`, `clippy`,
and `rustfmt` is also available:

```
nix develop
```

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Unify export into single button with format selection in save dialog
Replace separate PNG/JPEG export buttons with one Export button. Format
is chosen via file filters in the native save dialog (JPEG default, PNG
available). Dialog defaults to the user's Pictures folder via
set_initial_folder (portal-safe). Simplify shortcuts to Ctrl+E.

Fix documentation: README typo (lightning→lighting), metainfo preset
names, and stale agents.md references to gsettings, dirs crate, and
removed shortcuts.

README.md, after:



# Wallrus

<p align="center">
  <img src="data/icons/io.github.megakode.Wallrus.svg" width="128" height="128" alt="Wallrus icon">
</p>
A user-friendly GNOME (GTK4) application for generating colorful abstract wallpapers based on different patterns and effects.

For those who prefer minimalist, colorful wallpapers and like changing colors once in a while to keep things fresh.

<img width="1346" height="944" alt="Screenshot From 2026-02-22 15-04-59" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24508c47-0103-4817-a92f-bfd632fc9b67" />


## Example wallpapers

![wallrus_bars_1771764551](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/880a55a9-7b80-4d2c-86c9-3dd51da19a89)
![wallrus_bars_1771764536](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0034302e-1204-4ff7-8cf9-97c80ae61de6)
![wallrus_waves_1771764682](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/898a8c7d-07df-46fc-b939-60f2d840ff38)
![wallrus_terrain_1771764802](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95c61466-47df-45a0-92fe-bd17d4bb6c88)
![wallrus_terrain_1771764772](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf52c0e1-2557-4af6-aa68-09e5253862e5)
![wallrus_circle_1771764645](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f5ef79bd-56b1-4561-9c0c-65b11512611f)



## Features

- **5 shader presets** — Bars, Circle, Plasma, Waves, and Terrain, each with
  dedicated parameters (angle, scale, time scrub, center position)
- **Hundreds of bundled palette images** across several categories (cold, dark, fall,
  gradient, light, pastel, retro, sunset, warm, winter, etc.)
- **Custom palettes** — tweak individual colors with the color pickers, then save
  your palette for later. Saved palettes appear in a "Custom" category and can
  be deleted at any time.
- **Blend control** — go from hard flag-like stripes to fully smooth gradients
- **Effects** — Distortion, lighting, and noise
- **Export** — PNG or JPEG at 1080p, 1440p, or 4K via a native save dialog
  (defaults to your Pictures folder; resolution auto-detected from your display)
- **Set as wallpaper** — uses the XDG Desktop Portal to set your GNOME wallpaper
- **Keyboard shortcuts** — Ctrl+E (export), Ctrl+Shift+W (set as wallpaper)

## Requirements

- GTK 4 (≥ 4.10)
- libadwaita (≥ 1.4)
- OpenGL 3.3+ capable GPU
- Rust 1.70+

System packages (Fedora):

```
sudo dnf install gtk4-devel libadwaita-devel
```

System packages (Ubuntu/Debian):

```
sudo apt install libgtk-4-dev libadwaita-1-dev
```

## Building

```
cargo build --release
```

The binary is at `target/release/wallrus`.

## Installing

The included install script builds a release binary and copies everything to
`~/.local` (binary, desktop file, icon, metainfo, and bundled palettes):

```
./install.sh
```

To install to a different prefix:

```
PREFIX=/usr/local ./install.sh
```

You may need to log out and back in for the application icon to appear in your
launcher.

### Nix

A [Nix flake](https://nix.dev/concepts/flakes) is provided. You can run
Wallrus directly without installing:

```
nix run github:megakode/wallrus
```

To add it to a NixOS configuration:

```nix
# flake.nix
{
  inputs.wallrus.url = "github:megakode/wallrus";
  # ...
}

# configuration.nix
environment.systemPackages = [
  inputs.wallrus.packages.${pkgs.system}.default
];
```

A development shell with all native dependencies, `rust-analyzer`, `clippy`,
and `rustfmt` is also available:

```
nix develop
```

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
